Hey and welcome back.
So in our last video, we focused a lot on trying to find different types of typefaces that are going
to suit our brand over here habitual.
We went for different types of typefaces that are a little bit more humanist.
They have a little more variation in the types of like letter forms.
We tried some more safe bets like inter, which were kind of like throwbacks to like those grotesque
types of typefaces.
We got one geometric typeface and that was just and just to kind of like mimic what we have here, the
very round little counters.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to start thinking about, well, I need to choose a typeface here
and I want to choose the one that is going to work best for the types of components and different type
of content I'm going to have on my page.
You know, the worst thing to do is just pick a typeface out of nowhere and then find out later that,
hey, this doesn't really suit what I'm trying to build.
It's not necessarily legible.
It's not really suiting the brand like I thought it would.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to create a huge frame.
So let's create a big frame.
And we'll just call this concepts.
So I urge you while I'm doing this, to do it yourself as well.
Think about the types of content that we're going to be designing with like type elements that we may
have.
So I'm going to grab this brandy and I'm going to bring it over here.
I'm just going to convert this to group just to make it easier, because we're just playing around with
concepts.
So we have our brandy.
So when I think about the type of content I'm going to see, I'm going to think about like maybe the
home page is going to have like copy that says, find the stuff that you love and I'm going to start
using like here, let's use inter to start it off.
Great.
I'm probably going to use like 32 pixels and we'll make that bold.
A logo.
We'll just bring it over here.
I think it helps to.
Really.
See how this plays, how these elements all play well together.
And I may write something like, take a look at what we found for you.
So this maybe like 16 pixels and like a medium.
Okay.
So it's starting to look really nice.
I'm going to just try to match this color here.
It looks like it fits really well.
What else can we do?
Well, let's get an image.
Let's think about like a product image because there's going to be a bunch of them on this on this app.
So I'm going to open up Unsplash.
And I'm just going to type in like headphones or something.
Cool.
That's going to work.
Okay.
It's not in our frame.
Now it's in our frame.
Okay.
I think that's that's good for now.
And what I'll do now is probably just write the product name.
So let's just say like Sony headphones.
And then I will write like up.
I think a price we'll probably have will most likely have appraise 65, 99 and we probably have some
copies.
So let's go to our Lorem ipsum plug in, let's go to sentences and maybe we'll just have like two sentences.
Okay.
Now we can start creating a little bit more variation.
In terms of like the different types of type elements that we're going to see.
So that's probably like, maybe it's like regular.
It's probably like bull at 16.
I think that's fine.
We have this this may be a little bit larger, maybe like.
20.
And look at that like we we have a little bit of a product thing here, like a product image and everything.
Let me take it a step further.
And, you know, let's create a little pill that says like sale.
So we're going to do is I'm going to select it.
Option command g will make a frame, but just call it pill.
And what we're going to do here is we're going to go to order layout.
We'll do eight by eight.
Actually, we can probably just leave it at zero.
So eight by zero.
And we're going to go to our border radius or corner radius and select 100.
And we are going to turn that on.
Let's try to match our brand.
I think that's fine.
Okay.
And as for the.
Actual tape inside there will make it.
All caps probably make it like bolt or maybe semi bolt, maybe a little bit.
Of letter spacing.
And we can bump this up to like.
Actually, I think that's fine.
So now we have like a little more to see here, like in terms of just the actual versatility of our
typeface.
And this is definitely a much more versatile typeface than I thought it would be.
Everything kind of plays really well together, so.
Hmm.
I think this is fine.
What I'm going to do is I'm going to go all the way to the top.
And I'm going to make a couple copies.
So you have a bunch of copies now.
And what I like to do is I just like to select everything unless let's see what it looks like when we
start applying other typefaces and how they play together.
So that's one.
You know, you may need to change the styles around just a bit to get it the way you like.
Um.
Okay, that's going to be good.
This one will do overpass.
Okay.
I think we need to just change the board on that to like an extra bold.
Maybe this is like an extra bowl.
I like overpass a lot, actually.
I think it looks a lot like our wordmark there.
What was the other one?
Just.
Okay.
There's a lot of.
I think we're going to see I we're going to run into the problem here of just a little bit of legibility,
just the way the typeface is.
So I'm not sure if that's going to be a good choice.
And I think Haben was the last one.
Same with Cabin.
I mean, there isn't enough variation here.
So it may run into that problem.
So that's something definitely to think about.
So if I were to go through these different typefaces, I'm going to really think about, okay, well,
what is going to suit my content?
Number one, what matches like the tone of my brand?
So I think like Enter is a really nice one over here.
Definitely a really nice brand.
I mean, it matches our brand really nicely.
Definitely.
We have Lito.
I like that one a lot too.
I really like just the numbers on it as well.
It's.
Those are nice.
Maybe a little bit too much contrast.
So I like Leto a lot, actually.
It's like this in between.
Between like a surf and a sand surf.
There's these nice rounded corners.
I mean, it's not too alike in terms of, like, the actual brand, but it's not to not too different.
And when we kind of zoom out, it's really legible.
Overpass over here is really nice.
I mean, there's, like, kind of like.
A throwback to the word mark.
But one thing I don't like about it is it's not as legible as the others.
It's a little bit more convinced than I thought it would be.
And plus those little intricacies, especially like the K, if you look at that or what's another letter
here that has something like the short, like tip of the F and the high cross, you know, it makes
things a little bit harder to read, especially like the P over here.
So I'm probably not going to go with Overpass.
Same thing with Jost here.
I mean, we have the issue of like it having low X Heights, tall, tall heights over here and.
That makes it a little bit harder to read it.
Smaller sizes.
So I think what else we have, we have cabin.
So cabin.
I like to.
The only issue is like this is bold and this is regular and those are the two extremes and there isn't
enough contrast.
So if I'm going to squint and look at it, I'll notice that.
I mean, they kind of blurred together and this is probably not going to be a good choice since we're
going to have a lot of this together.
So my goal here, let's see if I bring this down a notch.
I mean, even then, it's still a little too close for my liking.
You know, for the sake of X, I really like the font.
I'm going to bring it in to my next round.
Same with Inter and Lito.
So let's bring those in because I like those.
So at this point, I mean, you can go ahead like you can use whatever fonts you want.
I'm just showing you my process for elimination.
When I'm choosing fonts, I may start creating a little bit more variation in elements to see what really
suits us or what's really going to suit our brand.
I'm thinking of going with Lito right now just because it's just a really nice typeface in relation.
Like I think the contrast between this and the brand in general is really nice and it has a sense of
like, I don't know, I think like you could just say like trustworthiness in a way.
Like it just it seems really professional.
The only problem I have right now with Inter is that it just seems like it's it's kind of devoid of
all emotion if you want to say kind of like a Helvetica and other neo grotesques.
So I'm having a hard time kind of settling on that.
What else is there?
And I mean, carbon just there's just not enough variation there.
So I think I'm going to stick with later.
Right now that may change, but what I would do is I would start creating different elements like buttons
or like paragraphs, body copy to really see.
I mean, we may not have a bunch of that in our application, but it's just good practice just to see
the variance in your typeface.
And I think this is going to work really well if we use it just as a solo typeface on our application.
So that's how you pick typefaces for a brand with no type system in place.
What I'm going to do next is I'm going to jump into Figma again and I'm going to start building out
a type system.